Let me share with
you a few tips for
getting started on
machine learning project.
This video will be
a little bit of
a grab bag of different ideas,
but I hope nonetheless
many of these ideas
will be useful to you.
We've talked about how
machine learning is
an iterative process
where you start with
a model, data, hyperparameters,
training model, carry
out error analysis,
and then use that to drive
further improvements.
After you've done
this a few times,
gone around the
loop enough times,
when you have a
good enough model,
you might then carry out
a final performance audit
before taking it to production.
In order to get started on
this first step of
coming of the model,
here are some suggestions.
When I'm starting on a
machine learning project,
I almost always start with
a quick literature search
to see what's possible,
so you can look at
online courses,
look at blogs, look at
open source projects.
My advice to you
if your goal is to
build a practical
production system
and not to do research is,
don't obsess about finding
the latest, greatest algorithm.
Instead, spend half a day,
maybe a small number of days
reading blog posts and pick
something reasonable that
lets you get started quickly,
if you can find an open
source implementation,
that can also help you establish
a baseline more efficiently.
I find that for many
practical applications,
a reasonable algorithm with
good data will often do
just fine and will
in fact outperform
a great algorithm with
not so good data.
Don't obsess about taking
the algorithm that was just
published in some
conference last week,
that is the most
cutting edge algorithm,
instead find
something reasonable,
find a good open
source implementation
and use that to
get going quickly.
Because being able to get
started on this first
step of this loop,
can make you more efficient in
iterating through more times,
and that will help you get
to good performance more quickly.
Second question I have often been asked
, is, "Hey Andrew,
do I need to take into account
deployment constraints
such as compute constraints
when picking a model?"
My answer is, yes you should take
deployment constraints such as
compute constraints into account,
if the baseline is already
established and you're
relatively confident
that this project
will work and thus
your goal is to build
and deploy a system.
But if you have not yet even
established a baseline,
or if you're not yet
sure if this project
will work and be
worthy of deployment,
then I will say no,
or maybe not necessarily.
If you are in a stage of
the project where your first
goal is to just establish
a baseline and determine
what is possible and if
this project is even worth
pursuing for the long term,
then it might be okay to ignore
deployment constraints
and just find
some open source
implementation and
try it out to see what
might be possible,
even if that open source
implementation is so
computationally
intensive that you know
you will never be
able to deploy that.
Of course, no harm taking
deployment constraints
into account as
well at this phase
of the project,
but it might also be
okay if you don't
and focus on more
efficiently establishing
the baseline first.
Finally, when trying out
a learning algorithm
for the first time,
before running it
on all your data,
I would urge you to run
a few quick sanity checks
for your code and your algorithm.
For example, I will
usually try to
overfit a very small
training dataset
before spending hours
or sometimes even
overnight or days training
the algorithm on a large dataset.
Maybe even try to
make sure you can
fit one training example,
especially, if the output
is a complex output.
For example, I was once
working on a speech
recognition system
where the goal was
to input audio and
have a learning algorithm
output a transcript.
When I trained my algorithm on
just one example, one audio clip,
when I trained my speech
recognition system on
just one audio clip
on the training set,
which is just one audio clip,
my system outputs this,
it outputs space, space,
space, space, space, space.
Clearly it wasn't working
and because my speech system
couldn't even accurately
transcribe one training example,
there wasn't much
point to spending
hours and hours training it
on a giant training set.
Or for image segmentation,
if your goal is to take
as input pictures like
this and segment out
the cats in the image,
then before spending
hours training
your system on hundreds
or thousands of images,
a worthy sanity check would be to
feed it just one image
and see if it can
at least overfit that
one training example
before scaling up to
a larger dataset.
The advantage of this is
you may be able to
train your algorithm on
one or a small handful
of examples in
just minutes or
maybe even seconds
and this lets you find
bugs much more quickly.
Finally, for image
classification problems,
even if you have 10,000
images or 100,000 images
or a million images
in your training set,
it might be worthwhile to very
quickly train your algorithm on
a small subset of just
10 or maybe 100 images,
because you can do that quickly.
If your algorithm can't even
do well on 100 images, well,
then it's clearly not going
to do well on 10,000 images,
so this would be another useful
sanity check for your code.
Now, after you've trained
a machine learning model,
after you've trained
your first model,
one of the most
important things is,
how do you carry out error
analysis to help you
decide how to improve the
performance of your algorithm?
Let's go on to the
next video to dive
into error analysis and
performance auditing.